All the tools we used worked well for our team. Our microservice architecture allowed for independent development that meant more features could be completed. Communication through Discord and in-person meetings worked well with everyone’s workstyle and busy schedules. The team created a supportive environment where members experienced with certain technologies would help other members learn those. This also allowed members familiar with certain technologies to take charge of certain areas of the application. For example, someone familiar with Neo4j would take on the community service where communities can be naturally represented as a graph, while someone familiar with TypeScript and React could focus on the front end and utilizing the services the team developed. As for tools, Jira and Github were of course used and useful for keeping track of the teams’ progress.
The biggest drawback to using a microservice architecture was difficulty getting all the services running as each member would focus on maintaining only a few relevant services. This also put a lot of burden on our last sprint (sprint 3) where integration utilizing gateways had to be done. Otherwise the team worked very well together to create an amazing product in the 2-month development period.
If we were to continue working as a team, we would continue with much of the same process. We would stick with the microservice architecture as it delivered the autonomy each team member needed to develop their service. We would continue with the weekly meetings and daily standups on a communication tool such as Slack. The team would look to improve upon how well we document the services such that other people can also learn from them. We would also take on a hybrid approach of working in a Test-driven development technique to further improve stability of the application.

